.TH MINIZINC 1 "@FULLDATE@" "" "G12 User's Guide"

.SH NAME
minizinc \- MiniZinc evaluation driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B minizinc
[
.BR OPTIONS " ]"
.I model.mzn
[
.IR data.dzn " ..."
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B minizinc
is a program that automates the evaluation of a MiniZinc model.
It invokes the programs necessary to convert MiniZinc into FlatZinc, evaluate
that FlatZinc, and then format and print the output.
.PP
Additionally,
.B minizinc
can be used to generate visualization using CP\-Viz (if used with
a FlatZinc implementation that can generate CP\-Viz trace logs.)

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display usage information.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Output progress information as compilation proceeds.
.TP
.B \-\-flags\-file <file>
Take the options from the specified file and handle them as if they
were specified on the command line.
.TP
.B \-k, \-\-keep\-files
Do not delete intermediate files generated during evaluation.

.SH "FLATTENING OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-\-mzn2fzn\-cmd <cmd>
Specify the command used to invoke the MiniZinc-to-FlatZinc converter.
The default command is: mzn2fzn.
.TP
.B \-D <data>, \-\-cmdline\-data <data>
Include the given data in the model.
.TP
.B \-I <dir>, \-\-search\-dir <dir>
Append <dir> to the list of search directories in which to search
for included files.
.TP
.B \-G <dir>, \-\-globals\-dir <dir>, \-\-minizinc\-globals\-dir <dir>
Search for included files in <stdlib>/<dir>.
.TP
.B
\-\-std\-globals, \-\-force\-standard\-globals
Clear the list of globals directories.
.TP
.B \-d <file>, \-\-data <file>
The specified file contains data used by the model.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-optimise, \-\-no\-optimize
Do not run the optimiser on the generated FlatZinc.
(This may speed up flattening of very large models.)
.TP
.B \-\-restrict\-includes
Do not allow absolute paths or '..' in include items.

.SH "EVALUATION OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-f <cmd>, \-\-flatzinc-cmd <cmd>
Specify the command used to invoke the FlatZinc interpreter.
The default command is: flatzinc.
.TP
.B
\-\-fzn\-flags <options>, \-\-flatzinc\-flags <options>
Specify the option to be passed to the FlatZinc interpreter.
\-\-fzn\-flag <option>, \-\-flatzinc\-flag <option>
As above, but for options that are single words that need to be quoted
when passed to the shell.
.TP
.B \-b <backend>, \-\-backend <backend>, \-\-solver\-backend <backend>
Select the solver(s) and evaluation algorithm used by the FlatZinc
interpreter.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-canonicalize
Canonicalize the FlatZinc solution stream.
Note that this option prevents incremental printing of solutions.
.TP
.B \-n <n>, \-\-num-\-solutions <n>
An upper bound on the number of solutions to output."
The default is: 1.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-all\-solns, \-\-all\-solutions
Print all solutions.
.TP
.B \-s\, \-\-statistics, \-\-solver\-statistics
Request that the FlatZinc interpreter emit statistical information
gathered by the solver(s) with each solution in the form of comments.
.TP
.B \-p <n>, \-\-parallel <n>
Use multiple threads and/or cores during search.
The argument specifies the number of cores available.
.TP
.B \-r <seed>, \-\-seed <seed>, \-\-random\-seed <seed>
Seed the interpreter's random number generator (if any) with the
given value.  The form of the seed is implementation\-dependent.

.SH "OUTPUT OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-o <file>, \-\-output\-to\-file <file>
Print solutions to the specified file rather than to the standard
output.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-output\-comments
Do not print comments in the FlatZinc solution stream.
.TP
.B \-i <n>, \-\-ignore\-lines <n>, \-\-ignore\-leading\-lines <n>
Ignore the first <n> lines in the FlatZinc solution stream.
.TP
.B \-\-soln\-sep <separator>, \-\-soln-separator <separator>, \-\-solution\-separator <separator>
Specify the string used to separate solutions.
The default is to use the FlatZinc solution separator, "\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-".
.TP
.B \-\-unsat\-msg <msg>, \-\-unsatisfiable\-msg <msg>
Specify the message to print if the model instance is unsatisfiable.
The default is to print "=====UNSATISFIABLE=====".
.TP
.B \-\-unbounded\-msg <msg>
Specify the message to print if the objective of the model instance is unbounded.
The default is to print "=====UNBOUNDED=====".
.TP
.B \-\-unknown\-msg <msg>
Specify the message to print if search terminates without the entire search
space have been explored and no solution has been found.
The default is to print "=====UNKNOWN=====".
.TP
.B \-\-search\-complete\-msg <msg>
Specify the message to print if search terminates having explored
the entire search space.
The default is to print "==========".

.SH "CP-VIZ OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-z, \-\-viz, \-\-cpviz, \-\-use\-cpviz
Generate a visualization using CP\-Viz.
.TP
.B \-\-java <cmd>
Specify the command used to invoke the Java interpreter.
The default is: java.

.SH "FLATZINC INTERFACE"
.B minizinc
will invoke a FlatZinc implementation as follows:
.PP
.IR flatzinc-cmd
[
.IR OPTIONS " ]"
.IR model.fzn
.PP
where
.IR flatzinc-cmd
is the name of the command used to invoke the FlatZinc implementation.
The command used to invoke the FlatZinc implementation may be specified
to
.B minizinc
using either the
.B \-\-fzn\-cmd
option or the
.I FLATZINC_CMD
environment variable.
.PP
By default, normal output from the FlatZinc implementation should be
written to the standard output.
.PP
In order for incremental printing of solutions to work properly,
FlatZinc implementations must flush the output stream after printing
a solution.
.PP
All error and warning output should be written to the standard error.
.PP
A FlatZinc implementation should terminate with a non-zero exit status
if an error occurs otherwise it should set its exit status to zero.
.PP
The following command line options can be passed to the FlatZinc
implementation when invoked by the
.B minizinc
program:
.TP
.B \-a
Output all solutions.
.TP
.B \-b <backend>
If the FlatZinc implementation supports multiple evaluation methods, this
option is used to select between them.
Note: we do not encourage the use of this option; implementations
should try to control such things using annotations in the model
instead.
.TP
.B \-n <num-of-solutions>
An upper bound on the number of solutions to print.
This option is overridden by
.BR \-a " option."
The default is to display a single solution.
.TP
.B \-o <file>
Output the solution stream to the specified
.I file
rather than to the standard output.
.TP
.B \-s
Emit solver statistics in the form of comments in the
FlatZinc solution stream.
.TP
.B \-p <n>
Use multiple threads and/or cores during search.
The argument
.I n
specifies the number of cores available.
.TP
.B \-z
Write out trace logs suitable for use with CP\-Viz.
An implementation that does not CP\-Viz should abort
with a non\-zero exit status if invoked with this option.
.TP
.B \-r <seed>
Seed the interpreter's random number generator (if any) with the
given value.  The form of the seed is implementation\-dependent.
.PP
Additional command line options may be passed to the FlatZinc
interpreter using the
.BR \-\-flatzinc\-flags " and"
.B \-\-flatzinc-flag
options.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP CPVIZ_HOME
This must be set to the to the location of the CP\-Viz
file
.IR viz.jar .
If not set, then the location of
.I viz.jar
must be included in the value of the
.I CLASSPATH
variable.

.IP FLATZINC_CMD
If set, specifies the command used to invoke the FlatZinc interpreter.
Overrides the value of the
.B \-\-flatzinc\-cmd
option.

.IP JAVA
If set, specifies the command used to invoke the Java interpreter.
Overrides the value of the
.B \-\-java
option.

.IP MZN2FZN_CMD
If set, specifies the command used to invoke the MiniZinc\-to\-FlatZinc converter.
Overrides the value of the
.B \-\-mzn2fzn\-cmd
option.

.SH "VERSION INFORMATION"
This manual documents
.B minizinc
version @MZN_SIMPLE_VERSION@.

.SH AUTHORS
The G12 team.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR flatzinc (1),
.BR mzn2fzn (1),
.BR solns2dzn (1),
.BR solns2out (1)
