.TH SOLNS2OUT 1 "@FULLDATE@" "" "G12 User's Manual"

.SH NAME
solns2out \- MiniZinc solution printing tool

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B solns2out
[
.BR OPTIONS " ]"
.I model.ozn
[
.I solutions
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Print each solution in a FlatZinc output stream using the model output
specification for the corresponding MiniZinc model instance to format
the output.
If no file containing the FlatZinc solution stream is named on the command
line then it will be read from the standard input.
.PP
Normal output is written to the standard output; error messages are written
to the standard error.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print this message.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information.
.TP
.B \-o <file>, \-\-output\-to\-file <file>
Write output to the specified file rather than to the standard output.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-output\-comments
Do not print comments in the FlatZinc solution stream.
.TP
.B \-i <n>, \-\-ignore\-lines <n>, \-\-ignore\-leading\-lines <n>
Ignore the first <n> lines in the FlatZinc solution stream.
.TP
.B \-\-soln\-sep <separator>, \-\-soln-separator <separator>, \-\-solution\-separator <separator>
Specify the string used to separate solutions.
The default is to use the FlatZinc solution separator, "\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-".
.TP
.B \-\-unsat\-msg <msg>, \-\-unsatisfiable\-msg <msg>
Specify the message to print if the model instance is unsatisfiable.
The default is to print "=====UNSATISFIABLE=====".
.TP
.B \-\-unbounded\-msg <msg>
Specify the message to print if the objective of the model instance is unbounded.
The default is to print "=====UNBOUNDED=====".
.TP
.B \-\-unknown\-msg <msg>
Specify the message to print if search terminates without the entire search
space have been explored and no solution has been found.
The default is to print "=====UNKNOWN=====".
.TP
.B \-\-search\-complete\-msg <msg>
Specify the message to print if search terminates having explored
the entire search space.
The default is to print "==========".

.SH "VERSION INFORMATION"
This manual page document
.B solns2out
version @MZN_SIMPLE_VERSION@.

.SH AUTHORS
The G12 team.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR flatzinc (1),
.BR minizinc (1),
.BR mzn2fzn (1)
