.TH SOLNS2DZN 1 "@FULLDATE@" "" "G12 Users's Manual"

.SH NAME
solns2dzn \- FlatZinc output processing tool

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B solns2dzn
[
.BR OPTIONS " ]"
[
.IR solutions " ]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B solns2dzn
is a tool for processing the output of FlatZinc implementations.
It has four modes of operation: (1) write each solution in some
FlatZinc output into a separate MiniZinc data file, (2) canonicalise the
output of a FlatZinc implementation by sorting the solutions, (3) output
the first solution in some FlatZinc output as MiniZinc data, and (4)
output the last solution in some FlatZinc output as MiniZinc data.
By default duplicate solutions are removed.
.PP
If no input file is specified then the input is read from the standard
input.
.PP
It is an error if no mode of operation is specified.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print this message.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information.

.SH "MODES OF OPERATION"
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-canonicalise
Output a canonicalised form of the input.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-first\-soln, \-\-first\-solution
Output the first solution in a FlatZinc solution stream.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-last\-soln, \-\-last\-solution
Output the last solution in a FlatZinc solution stream.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-split\-solns, \-\-split\-solutions
Output each solution to a separate file.

.SH "OTHER OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-d\-, \-\-no\-delete\-dups, \-\-no\-delete\-duplicates
Do not delete duplicate solutions.
.TP
.B \-b <base>, \-\-base <base>, \-\-output\-base <base>
Use the argument as the base of the files created when writing solutions
to separate files.
.TP
.B \-o <file>, \-\-output\-to\-file <file>
Write output to the specified file rather than to the standard output.
This option is ignored when splitting solutions.

.SH "VERSION INFORMATION"
This manual page documents
.B soln2dzn
version @MZN_SIMPLE_VERSION@.

.SH AUTHORS
The G12 team.
